shell/rplay/README.md, before:

# RPLAY

`rplay` plays audio files of nearly any format from one computer (the source), to any remote computer (the target) you care to use. This is done using `ffmpeg` to convert audio files to a `flac` stream which is, uh, streamed via `ssh` to the target computer and played on the default audio device via the `play` command (an alias for the `sox` command).

The source computer, the one you run the `rplay` command on, must have `zsh` and `ffmpeg` installed, and the target computer must have an `ssh` server running, a working default audio output device, and the `sox` package installed. You should have an ssh key copied to the target (goo\^w search ***ssh-copy-id***), otherwise using `rplay` will require *frequent* passwords as every single file played is through a separate ssh connection.

When started, `rplay` will verify that `ffmpeg` is installed locally, that an ssh connection can be made to the target, and that the target has the `sox` package installed. These tests, especially the ssh connection test, can take some time, though the timeout for the ssh test is set at 2 seconds. Because the timeout is so short, you may occasionally get an error that the connection could not be made if it takes longer than the 2 seconds `rplay` is willing to wait.

Though pretty nifty and useful (I use it frequently to play through a device hooked into a larger stereo system), there is no way to pause/resume/skip/fast-forward/rewind the playback. It's strictly a run-and-forget, or run-and-then-kill. Killing the process does stop playback, and though suspending the process (CTRL+Z) will suspend, there is considerable buffering and playback will *not* pause for some time. 

## Usage

```
	$ rplay --host <target> [options] file1 [file2 ...]
```

`<target>` will default to the environment variable $RPLAYAUDIOTARGET, so `rplay` could also be invoked as:
```
	$ export RPLAYAUDIOTARGET=somecomputer
```
```
	$ rplay file1 [file2 ...]
```

or

```
	$ RPLAYAUDIOTARGET=somecomputer rplay file1 [file1 ...]
```

Other options that can be provided are:

 * -s | --shuffle   
 > Will play the file list in random order
 * -48 | --48       
 > Will resample the output to 48KHz
 * -96 | --96       
 > Will resample the output to 96KHz
 * -q | --quiet     
 > Will suppress all console output


## Volume Control

rplay can be invoked through several symlinks to do *other* things. The most likely useful variants are the `rvolumeup` and `rvolumedown` commands. These will, surprisingly, adjust the volume on the remote target up or down when used. They use the same basic options as rplay, and are use like this:
```
	$ rvolumeup --host <target>
```
```
	$ rvolumedown --host <target>
```

Each invocation will adjust the volume up or down by 10 percentage points.

## Other Usage

rplay can also be invoked via the `rnoise` and `renterprise` symlinks. These both do the same thing: play a low frequency white noise reminiscent of the background drone on a certain well know fictional starship from the second series of as well known science-fiction franchise.

```
	$ rnoise --host <target>
```
```
	$ renterprise -- host <target>
```

## Installation

### Linux

```
	sudo make install
```

### FreeBSD

```
	sudo gmake install
```

Installation will install the rplay script and symlinks in `/usr/local/bin/`

Commit message:

apparently linux systems don't have mixer any more, but use amixer for volume changes. updated rplay to detect this when usign rvolumeup and rvolumedown and formatting the command appropriately.

shell/rplay/README.md, after:

# RPLAY

`rplay` plays audio files of nearly any format from one computer (the source), to any remote computer (the target) you care to use. This is done using `ffmpeg` to convert audio files to a `flac` stream which is, uh, streamed via `ssh` to the target computer and played on the default audio device via the `play` command (an alias for the `sox` command).

The source computer, the one you run the `rplay` command on, must have `zsh` and `ffmpeg` installed, and the target computer must have an `ssh` server running, a working default audio output device, and the `sox` package installed. You should have an ssh key copied to the target (goo\^w search ***ssh-copy-id***), otherwise using `rplay` will require *frequent* passwords as every single file played is through a separate ssh connection.

When started, `rplay` will verify that `ffmpeg` is installed locally, that an ssh connection can be made to the target, and that the target has the `sox` package installed. These tests, especially the ssh connection test, can take some time, though the timeout for the ssh test is set at 2 seconds. Because the timeout is so short, you may occasionally get an error that the connection could not be made if it takes longer than the 2 seconds `rplay` is willing to wait.

Though pretty nifty and useful (I use it frequently to play through a device hooked into a larger stereo system), there is no way to pause/resume/skip/fast-forward/rewind the playback. It's strictly a run-and-forget, or run-and-then-kill. Killing the process does stop playback, and though suspending the process (CTRL+Z) will suspend, there is considerable buffering and playback will *not* pause for some time. 

## Usage

```
	$ rplay --host <target> [options] file1 [file2 ...]
```

`<target>` will default to the environment variable $RPLAYAUDIOTARGET, so `rplay` could also be invoked as:
```
	$ export RPLAYAUDIOTARGET=somecomputer
```
```
	$ rplay file1 [file2 ...]
```

or

```
	$ RPLAYAUDIOTARGET=somecomputer rplay file1 [file1 ...]
```

Other options that can be provided are:

 * -s | --shuffle   
 > Will play the file list in random order
 * -48 | --48       
 > Will resample the output to 48KHz
 * -96 | --96       
 > Will resample the output to 96KHz
 * -q | --quiet     
 > Will suppress all console output


## Volume Control

rplay can be invoked through several symlinks to do *other* things. The most likely useful variants are the `rvolumeup` and `rvolumedown` commands. These will, surprisingly, adjust the volume on the remote target up or down when used. They use the same basic options as rplay, and are use like this:
```
	$ rvolumeup --host <target>
```
```
	$ rvolumedown --host <target>
```

Each invocation will adjust the volume up or down by 10 percentage points. You can specify a value to set the volume to, but the format of the value depends on the avalaible tool to change the volume. This differs between FreeBSD and Linux and possibly between distros. See `rplay -h` for more information.

## Other Usage

rplay can also be invoked via the `rnoise` and `renterprise` symlinks. These both do the same thing: play a low frequency white noise reminiscent of the background drone on a certain well know fictional starship from the second series of as well known science-fiction franchise.

```
	$ rnoise --host <target>
```
```
	$ renterprise -- host <target>
```

## Installation

### Linux

```
	sudo make install
```

### FreeBSD

```
	sudo gmake install
```

Installation will install the rplay script and symlinks in `/usr/local/bin/`
